So we all want to get started with that app here now
and so do I,
just one more thing I want to get out of the way so that it's not confusing if we then later use it.
We had a look at this square bracket notation, to access key names which we couldn't access with the dot
notation,
you actually can do more with the square brackets.
One cool feature is that you can also dynamically access properties with this notation.
Here I hardcoded first name in here,
now what if that would be stored in some constant, key name or whatever you want to name that constant?
So this constant holds a string
and now I know I want to access the property with that constant value,
so with this string, in person.
Well with the square bracket notation, you can access key name, now without quotes around it because
I'm not looking for a property name key name in here
but instead I want to look for a property with the value inside of key name,
so this here, in person.
So that's also something you can do and
that wouldn't work with the dot notation because with the dot notation, Javascript would always search
for a property with the name, key name in person,
so not with the value stored in key name but with key name as a name in person
and that of course doesn't exist here
so we would get undefined. With square brackets, we can dynamically look up values and we can work with
key name values which are actually stored in other constants or the result of any other expression, could
be a function call, could be a ternary expression,
anything that yields a value can be inserted here to
then access a key with that yielded value.
Now of course in this little example here, it's still the same as if I would have hardcoded first name
here because I hardcoded it into this constant
but you will have cases in this little demo app we're going to build in this module already actually
where this is derived dynamically and then this is really useful.
Now speaking of dynamic, there is another dynamic feature or thing you can enable with the square brackets
and objects and that's when you define the properties.
Now here, we know all property names in advance,
now what if that's not the case and we'll see an example for that in this app we're about to build too.
Let's say we got some user input, user chosen key name, which is level, anything like that, was entered
into an input by the user,
so we as a programmer don't know this in advance when we write the code,
keep in mind I'm just hardcoding this here as a dummy, as an example
but let's assume we got this from a dynamic input by the user,
so we don't know it in advance and now we want to add a property with that name
to this object. Now of course here or wherever you want, you could think I just add user chosen name
here and then store whichever value I got.
The problem with that is this would add a property with the name user chosen key name, not with the value
stored in the equally named variable. To do that,
you use square brackets here, a place where we haven't used them before,
so on the left side of the colon where you set your key name and you then reference that variable.
Now what Javascript will do is it will not take this as a key name
it adds to the object,
instead it will search for a variable of that name and take the value stored in that variable or constant,
so in this case this string here as a key name which it adds to person and then again, you can assign
any value you want here. So you can not only use square brackets to dynamically access properties but
also to dynamically set them, which is of course really powerful
and again a concrete example will be shown in this little app we're building.
And with that I'd say let's get started and
let's work on this app.